# ParkingLot_NMIMS_ UI/UX DESIGN 
The android application allows the students and the faculty at NMIMS to pre-book their parking slot, which stays reserved for 20 minutes from the time of booking. First of all, the user will have to log in. If the user is not signed up for the application, he/she can sign up, enter their details including name, SAP ID, Course, and if the user is a student/faculty member. The authentication for each user at the time of sign up is done by the help of OTP, which is sent to their registered contact number at college, and there is also an option to authenticate using email id. This would allow only the students/faculty from NMIMS to be able to use the app. Once the user has logged in, he/she can select from their saved vehicles (Or add a new vehicle, view a vehicle, delete a vehicle from the list) and search for a parking slot. 78 slots are reserved for the students, 40 for the faculty, 120 for 2 Wheelers and 15 for the handicapped people. If there is a handicapped individual in the vehicle, there is a checkbox for the same in the saved vehicles window, which can be checked and the access to the reserved slots for handicapped would be provided.Now, the possibilities of searching can be: Student is searching for a spot (4 wheeler), Faculty member is searching for a spot, an individual is searching for a 2 wheeler spot, or a vehicle with a handicapped person is searching for a spot. On the basis of previous selections, number of open, booked and reserved slots will be shown. On selecting book a slot, a map would be opened, from where the individual can select where they wish to park. A slot number will be assigned to them for 20 minutes, and that will show booked to other users. If the person doesn’t come in 20 minutes, it will be available to other users. Once the slot number is assigned, the user can follow that position using Google maps. Just in case, if there aren’t any available slots, the user can choose to find parking slots nearby college, and follow that location using Google maps. Outside as well, certain slots are reserved for faculty and handicapped individuals. There are two modes available in the UI/UX design, normal mode and dark mode, which is now available in most android devices. 
